README.rst, before:

AVIO
====

The AVIO Suite is an experimental approach to the concept of a live stage
performance. AVIO stands for "Audio Visual Input Output" and the suite is
a component (event) based agglomeration of tools to work with Controller,
Midi, Audio and Visual data.

Installation
============

You should have python-pygame (1.9.1) installed from your Distribution.
The package will additionally require and install circuits, an event driven
component framework with minimal overhead.

Then run:

 .. code-block:: bash

    $ python setup.py install

If you prefer working safe and sane, use a virtualenvironment:

 .. code-block:: bash

    $ virtualenv avio --system-site-packages
    $ source avio/bin/activate

Or if you have (you should ;) virtualenvwrapper:

 .. code-block:: bash

    $ mkvirtenv avio --system-site-packages
    $ workon avio

Saves that much typing. Then install AVIO:

 .. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install .

If you intend to develop on it, use:

 .. code-block:: bash
    $ python setup.py develop

Running
=======

Activate your virtual environment as above, (change to the AVIO source
directory) and run it thus:

 .. code-block:: bash

    $ ./avio


Since pygame needs an opened Display, AVIO opens the necessary window.
It needs to be open during usage, so don't close it. You can send
commands to the window, e.g. by pressing a key.
See 'Controlling' below for more information.

To avoid that (e.g. on headless machines), there is a shell-
script wrapper that instructs it to use a dummy display instead:

 .. code-block:: bash

    $ ./avio-nogui


Controlling
===========

Keyboard
--------

The GUI window currently accepts these keystrokes:

* q     Close the application (without asking)

More to come.

The window (obviously) has to be active, to receive keystrokes.

Joysticks & Gamepads
--------------------

They are currently statically mapped. Only axes work.
You can adjust the mapping in the router source code. This will be
enhanced, it is (as almost everything here) WiP.


License
=======

Copyright (C) 2015 riot <riot@c-base.org>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

3rd Party Licenses
==================

Includes a few fonts from the ttf-aenigma pack, a great font pack
sporting 465 free TrueType fonts by Brian Ken.

Commit message:

Nogui section thrown out, arguments added

README.rst, after:

AVIO
====

The AVIO Suite is an experimental approach to the concept of a live stage
performance. AVIO stands for "Audio Visual Input Output" and the suite is
a component (event) based agglomeration of tools to work with Controller,
Midi, Audio and Visual data.

Installation
============

You should have python-pygame (1.9.1) installed from your Distribution.
The package will additionally require and install circuits, an event driven
component framework with minimal overhead.

Then run:

 .. code-block:: bash

    $ python setup.py install

If you prefer working safe and sane, use a virtualenvironment:

 .. code-block:: bash

    $ virtualenv avio --system-site-packages
    $ source avio/bin/activate

Or if you have (you should ;) virtualenvwrapper:

 .. code-block:: bash

    $ mkvirtenv avio --system-site-packages
    $ workon avio

Saves that much typing. Then install AVIO:

 .. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install .

If you intend to develop on it, use:

 .. code-block:: bash
    $ python setup.py develop

Running
=======

Activate your virtual environment as above, (change to the AVIO source
directory) and run it thus:

 .. code-block:: bash

    $ ./avio

Arguments
=========

AVIO offers a few command line arguments:

* -h        Display help text
* --io      Display IO port tables for MIDI and Controllers
* --mididev Select a midi device (pick one from the --io command)
* --gui     Run the (experimental) GUI

Controlling
===========

Keyboard
--------

The GUI window currently accepts these keystrokes:

* q     Close the application (without asking)

More to come.

The window (obviously) has to be active, to receive keystrokes.

Joysticks & Gamepads
--------------------

They are currently statically mapped. Only axes work.
You can adjust the mapping in the router source code. This will be
enhanced, it is (as almost everything here) WiP.


License
=======

Copyright (C) 2015 riot <riot@c-base.org>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

3rd Party Licenses
==================

Includes a few fonts from the ttf-aenigma pack, a great font pack
sporting 465 free TrueType fonts by Brian Ken.
